Instructions on how to fill out the 
CMS 1500 Form 
Item Instructions 
Item 1Type of Health Insurance Co verage Applicable to the Claim  
Show the type of health insurance co verage applicable to this claim by 
checking the appropriate box, e.g., if a Medi care claim is being filed, check the 
Medicare box. 
Item 1aInsured’s ID Number  
(Patient’s Medicare Health In surance Claim Number - HICN)  
This is a required field. Enter the patient’s Medicare HICN whether Medicare 
is the primary or the secondary payer. Be sure to include the suffix and do not 
use spaces and/or dashes. (Example of proper HICN submission: 
123456789A) An invalid HICN will cause a claim to deny or be rejected as 
unprocessable.
If a patient’s HICN begins with an alpha c haracter, their claims must be filed 
to Railroad Medicare. The address is indicated here.  
Palmetto Government Benefits Administration  
PO BOX 10066  
Augusta GA 30999
Note:  Noridian Administrative Services (N AS) is prohibited from forwarding 
such claims.
Item 2Patient’s Name  
This is a required field . Enter the patient’s last name, first name, and middle 
initial, if any, as it appears on the patient’s Medicare card (e.g., Jones John J). 
Include only one space between the last  name, first name, and middle initial. If 
the name is not an identical match, the claim will be rejected as unprocessable.
Do not submit extra spaces, nicknames, or descriptions such as Jr., Sr., 
deceased, or the estate of (unless indicated on the Medicare card). Do not extend the beneficiary’s name bey ond the confines of this box.
Item 3Patient’s Birth Date and Sex  
Enter the patient’s 8-digit birt h date (MM | DD | CCYY) and sex. Only one 
box should be indicated; either M or F. Marking both or neither will cause the claim to be rejected as unprocessable.
  
Item 4Insured’s Name  
If Medicare is primary, leave blank . If there is insurance primary to 
Medicare, either through the patient’s or spouse’s employment or any other 
source, list the name of the insured here. When the insured and the patient are the same, enter the word SAME. 
Item 5Patient’s Address and Telephone Number  
This is a required field and must be filled in completely.  Enter the patient’s 
mailing address and telephone number. On the first line enter the street address; the second line, the city and st ate; the third line,  the ZIP code and 